now that you have your favorite fans
picked out let's take a look at how to
install it before you buy your fence or
begin your installation draw a sketch
with the actual measurements of your
project along with the location of the
fence
remember to account for gate spacing and
setting the location of your posts
you'll need to leave a space between the
post that is three quarters of an inch
larger than the size of your gate then
simply purchase however many fence
sections and coordinating posts that
your sketch calls for using a few common
tools and concrete you're now ready to
begin the installation of your fence
before digging it is recommended to have
the area surveyed in order to ensure
that there are no underground wires or
cables where you'll be digging once this
is done dig a hole at each post location
eight to ten inches in diameter and 42
to 48 inches deep depending on local
codes and soil conditions slide Bose pre
punch tracks into the top and bottom
rail if required for the style of fence
you have purchase then insert the
galvanized steel reinforcing channel
into the bottom rail making sure the
opening is facing the ground if you have
chosen the optional steel reinforcing
channel for the top rail ensure that the
opening is also facing the ground next
drill holes 1/8 of an inch in diameter
every 24 inches along the side of the
bottom rail this will allow for water
drainage so the hole should be just
above the vinyl rib that separates the
steel from the vertical planks you
should also drill one hole underneath
the bottom rail at 12 inches from the
post to prevent condensation build-up
inside the rail pour concrete into each
post hole to about 2 inches below ground
level insert two posts inside to
adjacent holes insert two pieces of
rebar into opposite corners of each post
rebuy should extend
twelve inches below the post either take
the ends of each rail or stuff them with
crumble newspaper to prevent concrete
infiltration then install the bottom
rail verify that the rail is
horizontally level and that the posts
are vertically plumb complete the
section assembly by inserting planks or
pickets into the pre routed holes on the
bottom rails then install the top rail
over the planks or pickets make sure
that the top rails are inserted
one-and-a-half inches inside the posts
and leave about a one-inch space between
the ends of the rails verify that the
rail is now level and the slats are
vertically plumb you should also try to
ensure that you have equal spacing
between the posts and the first and last
planks if required
you can now install the lattice option
using PVC glue attach the bottom you
molding to the middle of your top rail
make sure you Center the molding on the
rail now insert the lattice panel into
the U molding once that is done install
your top rail over the lattice and enter
the post holes make sure that the top
rails are inserted one-and-a-half inches
inside the posts repeat this procedure
for each section of the fence constantly
Rivera fiying that posts and rails are
properly aligned to secure your fence
you'll need to attach a screw to the one
and a half inch portion of the top rail
that's inside your post place the screw
as close as possible to the inside post
wall near the post hole and drive the
screw into the rail this will prevent
your rails from releasing from your
posts if you're using thin walled post
you should now fill the post with
concrete up to the bottom of the rail
now Rivera fie that post and rails are
properly aligned and vertically plumb
then brace as necessary remember in
windy conditions it may be necessary to
angle brace each side of your fence in
order to
sure that your fence remains vertically
plumb now just wash any concrete and
debris from your fence and let's sit
undisturbed for 24 to 48 hours or until
concrete is set the gate is also very
easy to install the spacing between the
posts should be three-quarters of an
inch larger than the width of the gate
draw a line on the post level with the
top of the fence rail install the hinges
using one and a half inch screws set the
gate between the posts and attach using
screws screw the latch tightly to the
post then install the latch pin on the
gate slightly higher than the latch to
avoid friction once your concrete is set
simply install your post caps and your
new Nora self fence is complete